packages/docs-gesture-handler/docs/guides/upgrading-to-3.mdx, before:

---
id: upgrading-to-3
title: Upgrading to the new API introduced in Gesture Handler 3
---

## Migrating gestures


import CodeComparison from '@site/src/components/CodeComparison';

The most important change brought by the Gesture Handler 3 is the new hook API. Migration is pretty straightforward. Instead of calling builder methods, everything is passed as a configuration object.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const gesture = Gesture.Pan()
  .onBegin(() => {
    console.log('Pan!');
  })
  .minDistance(25);
`}
code2={
`const gesture = usePanGesture({
      onBegin: () => {
        console.log('Pan!');
      },
      minDistance: 25,
    });
`}
/>

[`ForceTouch`](/docs/2.x/gestures/force-touch-gesture) gesture is not available in hook API.

<details>
<summary>Full changes</summary>

| RNGH2                  | RNGH3                   |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `Gesture.Pan()`        | `usePanGesture()`       |
| `Gesture.Tap()`        | `useTapGesture()`       |
| `Gesture.LongPress()`  | `useLongPressGesture()` |
| `Gesture.Rotation()`   | `useRotationGesture()`  |
| `Gesture.Pinch()`      | `usePinchGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Fling()`      | `useFlingGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Hover()`      | `useHoverGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Native()`     | `useNativeGesture()`    |
| `Gesture.Manual()`     | `useManualGesture()`    |
| `Gesture.ForceTouch()` | *Not available in hook API* |

</details>

### Renamed callbacks

In Gesture Handler 3 some of the callbacks were renamed, namely:

| RNGH2     | RNGH3          |
| --------- | -------------- |
| `onStart` | `onActivate`   |
| `onEnd`   | `onDeactivate` |
| `onTouchesCancelled`   | `onTouchesCancel` |

Here is comparison of the two APIs:

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const gesture = Gesture.Pan()
  .onStart(() => {
    console.log('Pan started!');
  })
  .onEnd(() => {
    console.log('Pan ended!');
  })
  .onTouchesCancelled(() => {
    console.log('Pan touches cancelled!');
  });
`}
code2={
`const gesture = usePanGesture({
  onActivate: () => {
    console.log('Pan activated!');
  },
  onDeactivate: () => {
    console.log('Pan deactivated!');
  },
  onTouchesCancel: () => {
    console.log('Pan touches cancelled!');
  },
});
`}
/>

### onChange

`onChange` callback has been removed, and its functionality has been integrated into `onUpdate`. You can now access `change*` properties in `onUpdate` callback.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan = Gesture.Pan().onChange((e) => {
  console.log(e.changeX);
});
`}
code2={
`const pan = usePanGesture({
  onUpdate: (e) => {
    console.log(e.changeX);
  },
});
`}
/>

### state & oldState

The `state` and `oldState` properties are no longer available in event objects. Tracking state changes can now only be accomplished using the appropriate [callbacks](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events).

### Event types

The types of events have been unified for all callbacks. Each event falls into one of two categories: [`GestureEvent`](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events#gestureevent) for gesture callbacks, or [`GestureTouchEvent`](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events#touchevent) for `TouchEvent` callbacks.

### StateManager

In Gesture Handler 3, `stateManager` is no longer passed to `TouchEvent` callbacks. Instead, you should use the global [`GestureStateManager`](/docs/fundamentals/state-manager).

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const manual = Gesture.Manual().onTouchesDown((e, stateManager ) => {
  stateManager.activate();
});
`}
code2={
`const manual = useManualGesture({
  onTouchesDown: (e) => {
    GestureStateManager.activate(e.handlerTag);
  },
});
`}
/>

## Migrating relations

### Composed gestures

Previously, composed gestures were created using `Gesture` object. In Gesture Handler 3, relations are set up using relation hooks.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan1 = Gesture.Pan();
const pan2 = Gesture.Pan();

const gesture = Gesture.Simultaneous(pan1, pan2);
`}
code2={
`const pan1 = usePanGesture({});
const pan2 = usePanGesture({});

const gesture = useSimultaneousGestures(pan1, pan2);
`}
/>

Full changes are as follows:

| RNGH2                                     | RNGH3                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `Gesture.Race()`                          | `useCompetingGestures()`    |
| `Gesture.Simultaneous()`                  | `useSimultaneousGestures()` |
| `Gesture.Exclusive()`                     | `useExclusiveGestures()`    |



### Cross components relations properties

Properties used to define cross-components interactions were renamed.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan1 = Gesture.Pan();
const pan2 =
    Gesture.Pan().requireExternalGestureToFail(pan1);
`}
code2={
`const pan1 = usePanGesture({});
const pan2 = usePanGesture({
  requireToFail: pan1,
});
`}
/>

Full changes are as follows:


| RNGH2                                     | RNGH3                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `gesture.simultaneousWithExternalGesture` | `gesture.simultaneousWith`  |
| `gesture.requireExternalGestureToFail`    | `gesture.requireToFail`     |
| `gesture.blocksExternalGesture`           | `gesture.block`             |


## Migrating components relying on view hierarchy

Certain components, such as `SVG`, depend on the view hierarchy to function correctly. In Gesture Handler 3, `GestureDetector` disrupts these hierarchies. To resolve this issue, two new detectors have been introduced: [`InterceptingGestureDetector`](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors#interceptinggesturedetector) and [`VirtualGestureDetector`](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors#virtualgesturedetector).

:::danger Detectors order
`VirtualGestureDetector` has to be a descendant of `InterceptingGestureDetector`.
:::

### Migrating SVG

In Gesture Handler 2 it was possible to use `GestureDetector` directly on `SVG`. In Gesture Handler 3, the correct way to interact with `SVG` is to use `InterceptingGestureDetector` and `VirtualGestureDetector`.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`
<GestureDetector gesture={containerTap}>
  <Svg>
    <GestureDetector gesture={circleTap}>
      <Circle />
    </GestureDetector>
  </Svg>
</GestureDetector>
`}
code2={
`
<InterceptingGestureDetector gesture={containerTap}>
  <Svg>
    <VirtualGestureDetector gesture={circleTap}>
      <Circle />
    </VirtualGestureDetector>
  </Svg>
</InterceptingGestureDetector>
`}
/>

## Old components

### Buttons

The implementation of buttons has been updated, resolving most button-related issues. They have also been internally rewritten to utilize the new hook API. The original button components are still accessible but have been renamed with the prefix `Legacy`, e.g., `RectButton` is now available as `LegacyRectButton`.

Although the legacy JS implementation of the buttons is still available, they also use the new host component internally.

<details>
<summary>Legacy buttons</summary>

| RNGH2                 | RNGH3                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `RawButton`           | `LegacyRawButton`           |
| `BaseButton`          | `LegacyBaseButton`          |
| `RectButton`          | `LegacyRectButton`          |
| `BorderlessButton`    | `LegacyBorderlessButton`    |

</details>

### Other components

Other components have also been internally rewritten using the new hook API but are exported under their original names, so no changes are necessary on your part. However, if you need to use the previous implementation for any reason, the old components are also available and are prefixed with `Legacy`, e.g., `ScrollView` is now available as `LegacyScrollView`.

<details>
<summary>Legacy components</summary>

| RNGH2                 | RNGH3                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `ScrollView`          | `LegacyScrollView`          |
| `FlatList`            | `LegacyFlatList`            |
| `RefreshControl`      | `LegacyRefreshControl`      |
| `Switch`              | `LegacySwitch`              |
| `TextInput`           | `LegacyTextInput`           |
| `DrawerLayoutAndroid` | `LegacyDrawerLayoutAndroid` |

</details>

## Replaced types

Most of the types, like `TapGesture`, are still present in Gesture Handler 3. However, they are now used in new hook API. Types for old API now have `Legacy` prefix, e.g. `TapGesture` becomes `LegacyTapGesture`.

<details>
<summary>Legacy types</summary>

| RNGH2                   | RNGH3                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `PanGesture`            | `LegacyPanGesture`            |
| `TapGesture`            | `LegacyTapGesture`            |
| `LongPressGesture`      | `LegacyLongPressGesture`      |
| `RotationGesture`       | `LegacyRotationGesture`       |
| `PinchGesture`          | `LegacyPinchGesture`          |
| `FlingGesture`          | `LegacyFlingGesture`          |
| `HoverGesture`          | `LegacyHoverGesture`          |
| `NativeGesture`         | `LegacyNativeGesture`         |
| `ManualGesture`         | `LegacyManualGesture`         |
| `ForceTouchGesture`     | `LegacyForceTouchGesture`     |
|                         |                               |
| `ComposedGesture`       | `LegacyComposedGesture`       |
| `RaceGesture`           | `LegacyRaceGesture`           |
| `SimultaneousGesture`   | `LegacySimultaneousGesture`   |
| `ExclusiveGesture`      | `LegacyExclusiveGesture`      |
|                         |                               |
| `RawButtonProps`        | `LegacyRawButtonProps`        |
| `BaseButtonProps`       | `LegacyBaseButtonProps`       |
| `RectButtonProps`       | `LegacyRectButtonProps`       |
| `BorderlessButtonProps` | `LegacyBorderlessButtonProps` |

</details>

Commit message:

Export new `createNativeWrapper` (#3971)
## Description

This PR exports new `createNativeWrapper` implementation and renames old
one to `legacy_createNativeWrapper`. It also updated documentation,
along with skill for LLM migration.

## Test plan

Check example from new docs.

packages/docs-gesture-handler/docs/guides/upgrading-to-3.mdx, after:

---
id: upgrading-to-3
title: Upgrading to the new API introduced in Gesture Handler 3
---

import CodeComparison from '@site/src/components/CodeComparison';

## Migrating gestures

The most important change brought by the Gesture Handler 3 is the new hook API. Migration is pretty straightforward. Instead of calling builder methods, everything is passed as a configuration object.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const gesture = Gesture.Pan()
  .onBegin(() => {
    console.log('Pan!');
  })
  .minDistance(25);
`}
code2={
`const gesture = usePanGesture({
      onBegin: () => {
        console.log('Pan!');
      },
      minDistance: 25,
    });
`}
/>

[`ForceTouch`](/docs/2.x/gestures/force-touch-gesture) gesture is not available in hook API.

<details>
<summary>Full changes</summary>

| RNGH2                  | RNGH3                   |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `Gesture.Pan()`        | `usePanGesture()`       |
| `Gesture.Tap()`        | `useTapGesture()`       |
| `Gesture.LongPress()`  | `useLongPressGesture()` |
| `Gesture.Rotation()`   | `useRotationGesture()`  |
| `Gesture.Pinch()`      | `usePinchGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Fling()`      | `useFlingGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Hover()`      | `useHoverGesture()`     |
| `Gesture.Native()`     | `useNativeGesture()`    |
| `Gesture.Manual()`     | `useManualGesture()`    |
| `Gesture.ForceTouch()` | *Not available in hook API* |

</details>

### Renamed callbacks

In Gesture Handler 3 some of the callbacks were renamed, namely:

| RNGH2     | RNGH3          |
| --------- | -------------- |
| `onStart` | `onActivate`   |
| `onEnd`   | `onDeactivate` |
| `onTouchesCancelled`   | `onTouchesCancel` |

Here is comparison of the two APIs:

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const gesture = Gesture.Pan()
  .onStart(() => {
    console.log('Pan started!');
  })
  .onEnd(() => {
    console.log('Pan ended!');
  })
  .onTouchesCancelled(() => {
    console.log('Pan touches cancelled!');
  });
`}
code2={
`const gesture = usePanGesture({
  onActivate: () => {
    console.log('Pan activated!');
  },
  onDeactivate: () => {
    console.log('Pan deactivated!');
  },
  onTouchesCancel: () => {
    console.log('Pan touches cancelled!');
  },
});
`}
/>

### onChange

`onChange` callback has been removed, and its functionality has been integrated into `onUpdate`. You can now access `change*` properties in `onUpdate` callback.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan = Gesture.Pan().onChange((e) => {
  console.log(e.changeX);
});
`}
code2={
`const pan = usePanGesture({
  onUpdate: (e) => {
    console.log(e.changeX);
  },
});
`}
/>

### state & oldState

The `state` and `oldState` properties are no longer available in event objects. Tracking state changes can now only be accomplished using the appropriate [callbacks](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events).

### Event types

The types of events have been unified for all callbacks. Each event falls into one of two categories: [`GestureEvent`](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events#gestureevent) for gesture callbacks, or [`GestureTouchEvent`](/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events#touchevent) for `TouchEvent` callbacks.

### StateManager

In Gesture Handler 3, `stateManager` is no longer passed to `TouchEvent` callbacks. Instead, you should use the global [`GestureStateManager`](/docs/fundamentals/state-manager).

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const manual = Gesture.Manual().onTouchesDown((e, stateManager ) => {
  stateManager.activate();
});
`}
code2={
`const manual = useManualGesture({
  onTouchesDown: (e) => {
    GestureStateManager.activate(e.handlerTag);
  },
});
`}
/>

## Migrating relations

### Composed gestures

Previously, composed gestures were created using `Gesture` object. In Gesture Handler 3, relations are set up using relation hooks.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan1 = Gesture.Pan();
const pan2 = Gesture.Pan();

const gesture = Gesture.Simultaneous(pan1, pan2);
`}
code2={
`const pan1 = usePanGesture({});
const pan2 = usePanGesture({});

const gesture = useSimultaneousGestures(pan1, pan2);
`}
/>

Full changes are as follows:

| RNGH2                                     | RNGH3                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `Gesture.Race()`                          | `useCompetingGestures()`    |
| `Gesture.Simultaneous()`                  | `useSimultaneousGestures()` |
| `Gesture.Exclusive()`                     | `useExclusiveGestures()`    |



### Cross components relations properties

Properties used to define cross-components interactions were renamed.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`const pan1 = Gesture.Pan();
const pan2 =
    Gesture.Pan().requireExternalGestureToFail(pan1);
`}
code2={
`const pan1 = usePanGesture({});
const pan2 = usePanGesture({
  requireToFail: pan1,
});
`}
/>

Full changes are as follows:


| RNGH2                                     | RNGH3                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `gesture.simultaneousWithExternalGesture` | `gesture.simultaneousWith`  |
| `gesture.requireExternalGestureToFail`    | `gesture.requireToFail`     |
| `gesture.blocksExternalGesture`           | `gesture.block`             |


## Migrating components relying on view hierarchy

Certain components, such as `SVG`, depend on the view hierarchy to function correctly. In Gesture Handler 3, `GestureDetector` disrupts these hierarchies. To resolve this issue, two new detectors have been introduced: [`InterceptingGestureDetector`](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors#interceptinggesturedetector) and [`VirtualGestureDetector`](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors#virtualgesturedetector).

:::danger Detectors order
`VirtualGestureDetector` has to be a descendant of `InterceptingGestureDetector`.
:::

### Migrating SVG

In Gesture Handler 2 it was possible to use `GestureDetector` directly on `SVG`. In Gesture Handler 3, the correct way to interact with `SVG` is to use `InterceptingGestureDetector` and `VirtualGestureDetector`.

<CodeComparison
label1={"RNGH 2"}
label2={"RNGH 3"}
code1={
`
<GestureDetector gesture={containerTap}>
  <Svg>
    <GestureDetector gesture={circleTap}>
      <Circle />
    </GestureDetector>
  </Svg>
</GestureDetector>
`}
code2={
`
<InterceptingGestureDetector gesture={containerTap}>
  <Svg>
    <VirtualGestureDetector gesture={circleTap}>
      <Circle />
    </VirtualGestureDetector>
  </Svg>
</InterceptingGestureDetector>
`}
/>

## Old components

### Buttons

The implementation of buttons has been updated, resolving most button-related issues. They have also been internally rewritten to utilize the new hook API. The original button components are still accessible but have been renamed with the prefix `Legacy`, e.g., `RectButton` is now available as `LegacyRectButton`.

Although the legacy JS implementation of the buttons is still available, they also use the new host component internally.

<details>
<summary>Legacy buttons</summary>

| RNGH2                 | RNGH3                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `RawButton`           | `LegacyRawButton`           |
| `BaseButton`          | `LegacyBaseButton`          |
| `RectButton`          | `LegacyRectButton`          |
| `BorderlessButton`    | `LegacyBorderlessButton`    |

</details>

### Other components

Other components have also been internally rewritten using the new hook API but are exported under their original names, so no changes are necessary on your part. However, if you need to use the previous implementation for any reason, the old components are also available and are prefixed with `Legacy`, e.g., `ScrollView` is now available as `LegacyScrollView`.

<details>
<summary>Legacy components</summary>

| RNGH2                 | RNGH3                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `ScrollView`          | `LegacyScrollView`          |
| `FlatList`            | `LegacyFlatList`            |
| `RefreshControl`      | `LegacyRefreshControl`      |
| `Switch`              | `LegacySwitch`              |
| `TextInput`           | `LegacyTextInput`           |
| `DrawerLayoutAndroid` | `LegacyDrawerLayoutAndroid` |

</details>

### createNativeWrapper

`createNativeWrapper` has been rewritten using the new hook API and exported under the original name. The old implementation is still available as `legacy_createNativeWrapper`. It also accepts new optional parameter - `detectorType`, which allows you to specify the type of the [gesture detector](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors) that will be used internally. By default it uses `GestureDetector`.

While new `createNativeWrapper` should work out of the box, keep in mind that it wraps your component with `GestureDetector`, which in Gesture Handler 3 is a host component. This affects view hierarchy, so depending on your use case, you might want to use [`VirtualGestureDetector`](/docs/fundamentals/gesture-detectors#virtualgesturedetector) instead. To do that, simply pass the desired detector type as the second parameter of `createNativeWrapper`.

More on `createNativeWrapper` can be in the [dedicated section](/docs/components/create-native-wrapper) of the documentation.

## Replaced types

Most of the types, like `TapGesture`, are still present in Gesture Handler 3. However, they are now used in new hook API. Types for old API now have `Legacy` prefix, e.g. `TapGesture` becomes `LegacyTapGesture`.

<details>
<summary>Legacy types</summary>

| RNGH2                   | RNGH3                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `PanGesture`            | `LegacyPanGesture`            |
| `TapGesture`            | `LegacyTapGesture`            |
| `LongPressGesture`      | `LegacyLongPressGesture`      |
| `RotationGesture`       | `LegacyRotationGesture`       |
| `PinchGesture`          | `LegacyPinchGesture`          |
| `FlingGesture`          | `LegacyFlingGesture`          |
| `HoverGesture`          | `LegacyHoverGesture`          |
| `NativeGesture`         | `LegacyNativeGesture`         |
| `ManualGesture`         | `LegacyManualGesture`         |
| `ForceTouchGesture`     | `LegacyForceTouchGesture`     |
|                         |                               |
| `ComposedGesture`       | `LegacyComposedGesture`       |
| `RaceGesture`           | `LegacyRaceGesture`           |
| `SimultaneousGesture`   | `LegacySimultaneousGesture`   |
| `ExclusiveGesture`      | `LegacyExclusiveGesture`      |
|                         |                               |
| `RawButtonProps`        | `LegacyRawButtonProps`        |
| `BaseButtonProps`       | `LegacyBaseButtonProps`       |
| `RectButtonProps`       | `LegacyRectButtonProps`       |
| `BorderlessButtonProps` | `LegacyBorderlessButtonProps` |

</details>
