packages/docs-gesture-handler/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events.mdx, before:

---
id: callbacks-events
title: Gesture callbacks & events
sidebar_label: Gesture callbacks & events
sidebar_position: 5
---

import {GestureEventFlowChart, TouchEventFlowChart} from '@site/src/examples/CallbacksFlowCharts'
import CodeWithTypes from '@site/src/components/CodeWithTypes';

Every gesture can be treated as ["state machine"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine).
At any given time, each handler instance has an assigned state that can change when new touch events occur or can be forced to change by the touch system in certain circumstances.

## States

States manage the internal recognition process. You can hook into these transitions using specific gesture callbacks.

| State | Description | Callback |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **`UNDETERMINED`** | The default initial state of every handler. | — |
| **`BEGAN`** | The handler has started receiving touch data but hasn't yet met the activation criteria. | [`onBegin`](#onbegin) |
| **`ACTIVE`** | The gesture is recognized and activation criteria are met. | [`onActivate`](#onactivate) / [`onUpdate`](#onupdate) |
| **`END`** | The user successfully completed the gesture. | [`onDeactivate`](#ondeactivate) |
| **`FAILED`** | The handler failed to recognize the gesture. | [`onFinalize`](#onfinalize) |
| **`CANCELLED`** | The system interrupted the gesture. | [`onFinalize`](#onfinalize) |


## Events

### GestureEvent

<CodeWithTypes
srcCode={`
export type GestureEvent<HandlerData> = {
  handlerTag: number;
  numberOfPointers: number;
  pointerType: PointerType;
} & HandlerData;
`} 
srcDetails={`
export enum PointerType {
  TOUCH,
  STYLUS,
  MOUSE,
  KEY,
  OTHER,
}`}
/>

`GestureEvent` contains properties common to all gestures (`handlerTag`, `numberOfPointers`, `pointerType`) along with gesture-specific data defined in each gesture's documentation.

### TouchEvent

<CodeWithTypes
srcCode={`
export type GestureTouchEvent = {
  handlerTag: number;
  numberOfTouches: number;
  state: State;
  eventType: TouchEventType;
  allTouches: TouchData[];
  changedTouches: TouchData[];
  pointerType: PointerType;
};
`}
srcDetails={`
export const State = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  FAILED: 1,
  BEGAN: 2,
  CANCELLED: 3,
  ACTIVE: 4,
  END: 5,
} as const;

export const TouchEventType = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  TOUCHES_DOWN: 1,
  TOUCHES_MOVE: 2,
  TOUCHES_UP: 3,
  TOUCHES_CANCEL: 4,
} as const;

export const TouchEventType = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  TOUCHES_DOWN: 1,
  TOUCHES_MOVE: 2,
  TOUCHES_UP: 3,
  TOUCHES_CANCEL: 4,
} as const;

export enum PointerType {
  TOUCH,
  STYLUS,
  MOUSE,
  KEY,
  OTHER,
}
`}
/>

`TouchEvent` carries information about raw touch events, like touching the screen or moving the finger. 

## Callbacks flow

### GestureEvent callbacks

<GestureEventFlowChart />

### TouchEvent callbacks

<TouchEventFlowChart />

## Callbacks

### onBegin

```ts
onBegin: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```

Called when a handler begins to recognize gestures.

### onActivate

```ts
onActivate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```
 
Called when activation criteria for handler are met.

### onUpdate

```ts
onUpdate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```

Called every time a gesture is updated after it has started.

### onDeactivate

```ts
onDeactivate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>, didSucceed: boolean) => void
```

Called after when handler stops recognizing gestures, but only if handler activated. It is called before `onFinalize`. If the handler was interrupted, the `didSucceed` argument is set to `false`. Otherwise it is set to `true`.

### onFinalize

```ts
onFinalize: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>, didSucceed: boolean) => void
```

Called when handler stops recognizing gestures. If handler managed to activate, the `didSucceed` argument is set to `true` and `onFinalize` will be called right after `onDeactivate`. Otherwise it is set to `false`.

### onTouchesDown

```ts
onTouchesDown: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when new pointers are placed on the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesMove

```ts
onTouchesMove: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when pointers are moved on the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesUp

```ts
onTouchesUp: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when pointers are lifted from the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesCancelled

```ts
onTouchesCancelled: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when there will be no more information about this pointer. It may be called because the gesture has ended or was interrupted. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

Commit message:

Add note about complementary callbacks

packages/docs-gesture-handler/docs/fundamentals/callbacks-events.mdx, after:

---
id: callbacks-events
title: Gesture callbacks & events
sidebar_label: Gesture callbacks & events
sidebar_position: 5
---

import {GestureEventFlowChart, TouchEventFlowChart} from '@site/src/examples/CallbacksFlowCharts'
import CodeWithTypes from '@site/src/components/CodeWithTypes';

Every gesture can be treated as ["state machine"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine).
At any given time, each handler instance has an assigned state that can change when new touch events occur or can be forced to change by the touch system in certain circumstances.

## States

States manage the internal recognition process. You can hook into these transitions using specific gesture callbacks.

| State | Description | Callback |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **`UNDETERMINED`** | The default initial state of every handler. | — |
| **`BEGAN`** | The handler has started receiving touch data but hasn't yet met the activation criteria. | [`onBegin`](#onbegin) |
| **`ACTIVE`** | The gesture is recognized and activation criteria are met. | [`onActivate`](#onactivate) / [`onUpdate`](#onupdate) |
| **`END`** | The user successfully completed the gesture. | [`onDeactivate`](#ondeactivate) |
| **`FAILED`** | The handler failed to recognize the gesture. | [`onFinalize`](#onfinalize) |
| **`CANCELLED`** | The system interrupted the gesture. | [`onFinalize`](#onfinalize) |


## Events

### GestureEvent

<CodeWithTypes
srcCode={`
export type GestureEvent<HandlerData> = {
  handlerTag: number;
  numberOfPointers: number;
  pointerType: PointerType;
} & HandlerData;
`} 
srcDetails={`
export enum PointerType {
  TOUCH,
  STYLUS,
  MOUSE,
  KEY,
  OTHER,
}`}
/>

`GestureEvent` contains properties common to all gestures (`handlerTag`, `numberOfPointers`, `pointerType`) along with gesture-specific data defined in each gesture's documentation.

### TouchEvent

<CodeWithTypes
srcCode={`
export type GestureTouchEvent = {
  handlerTag: number;
  numberOfTouches: number;
  state: State;
  eventType: TouchEventType;
  allTouches: TouchData[];
  changedTouches: TouchData[];
  pointerType: PointerType;
};
`}
srcDetails={`
export const State = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  FAILED: 1,
  BEGAN: 2,
  CANCELLED: 3,
  ACTIVE: 4,
  END: 5,
} as const;

export const TouchEventType = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  TOUCHES_DOWN: 1,
  TOUCHES_MOVE: 2,
  TOUCHES_UP: 3,
  TOUCHES_CANCEL: 4,
} as const;

export const TouchEventType = {
  UNDETERMINED: 0,
  TOUCHES_DOWN: 1,
  TOUCHES_MOVE: 2,
  TOUCHES_UP: 3,
  TOUCHES_CANCEL: 4,
} as const;

export enum PointerType {
  TOUCH,
  STYLUS,
  MOUSE,
  KEY,
  OTHER,
}
`}
/>

`TouchEvent` carries information about raw touch events, like touching the screen or moving the finger. 

## Callbacks flow

### GestureEvent callbacks

<GestureEventFlowChart />

Note that some of these callbacks are complementary:

- if `onBegin` was called, it is guaranteed that `onFinalize` will be called later.
- if `onActivate` was called, it is guaranteed that `onDeactivate` will be called later.

### TouchEvent callbacks

<TouchEventFlowChart />

## Callbacks

### onBegin

```ts
onBegin: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```

Called when a handler begins to recognize gestures. If `onBegin` was called, it is guaranteed that `onFinalize` will be called later.

### onActivate

```ts
onActivate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```
 
Called when activation criteria for handler are met. If `onActivate` was called, it is guaranteed that `onDeactivate` will be called later.

### onUpdate

```ts
onUpdate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>) => void
```

Called every time a gesture is updated after it has started.

### onDeactivate

```ts
onDeactivate: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>, didSucceed: boolean) => void
```

Called after when handler stops recognizing gestures, but only if handler activated. It is called before `onFinalize`. If the handler was interrupted, the `didSucceed` argument is set to `false`. Otherwise it is set to `true`.

### onFinalize

```ts
onFinalize: (event: GestureEvent<HandlerData>, didSucceed: boolean) => void
```

Called when handler stops recognizing gestures. If handler managed to activate, the `didSucceed` argument is set to `true` and `onFinalize` will be called right after `onDeactivate`. Otherwise it is set to `false`.

### onTouchesDown

```ts
onTouchesDown: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when new pointers are placed on the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesMove

```ts
onTouchesMove: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when pointers are moved on the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesUp

```ts
onTouchesUp: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when pointers are lifted from the screen. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.

### onTouchesCancelled

```ts
onTouchesCancelled: (event: GestureTouchEvent) => void
```

Called when there will be no more information about this pointer. It may be called because the gesture has ended or was interrupted. It may carry information about more than one pointer because the events are batched.
